# Validation Framework (Guardrails)

 ## What is Guardrails? 

Guardrails mainly known as Validation framework in context to LLM (Large Language Models), serve as quality checks to ensure model outputs meet reliability standards in real-world applications, particularly verifying alignment with predefined specifications (like JSON structure).

## Why Guardrails?

Guardrails ensure that Language Model outputs are accurate, compliant with the right format, contain correct information, and are free from harmful content, while also safeguarding against adversarial input to maintain content quality and safety. It makes sure that output just doesn't sound good but is also syntactically as well as factually correct.

### Practical Validation stratergies for Guardrails Implementation

<ul>
  <li> Structural guidance ->  It provides direct control over outputs and offers a more precise method to ensure that output conforms to a specific structure or format.​</li>
  <li> Syntactic guardrails -  These include checking if categorical output is within a set of acceptable choices, or if numeric output is within an expected range.​</li>
  <b><li> Content safety guardrails - These verify that the output has no harmful or inappropriate content. ​</li></b>
  <li> Semantic/factuality guardrails  - These confirm that the output is semantically relevant to the input. ​</li>
  <li> Input guardrails - These limit the types of input the model will respond to, helping to mitigate the risk of the model responding to inappropriate or adversarial prompts which would lead to generating harmful content.</li>
</ul>

# Content Safety Guardrails

This is used to verify that the output generated by LLM has no harmful, inappropriate or personal information.

## Basic Understanding of code
<ul>
 <li>The code is basically a streamlit which uses Azure Open API, to convert any language into english while using guardrails to validate the output is prafnity free.</li>
 <li>In the code if you see there's a RAIL (Reliable AI Markup Language) structure in PYDANTIC format and gurdrails provide an object definition for it to enforce a specification on LLM output.</li>
 <li>To get the correct outputs from LLM one has to create a specific structure of information validator in which there are validators for specific required checks, in this case the check which is used is profanity free and created a class around it which uses profanity packages which serves as the checks for it.</li>
 <li>Then the RAIL structure is being called with the help of Guard, this guard serves as wrap around your LLM API.</li>
 <li>
  There are 2 functions in the code, translate_without_guardrails and main
  <ul>
   <li>
     Hi1
   </li>
   <li>
      Hi
   </li>
  </ul>
 </li>
</ul>



